---
layout: post
title: ''
category: uncategorized
---

My friend Dave sent me this...
<br />
<br /><b>Are you a prostitute or a consultant?</b>
<br />
<br />1. You work very odd hours.
<br />2. You are paid a lot of money to keep your client happy.
<br />3. You are paid well but your pimp gets most of the money.
<br />4. You spend a majority of your time in a hotel room.
<br />5. You charge by the hour but your time can be extended for the right price.
<br />6. You are not proud of what you do.
<br />7. Creating fantasies for your clients is rewarded.
<br />8. It's difficult to have a family.
<br />9. You have no job satisfaction.
<br />10. If a client beats you up, the pimp just sends you to another client.
<br />11. You are embarrassed to tell people what you do for a living.
<br />12. People ask you, "What do you do?" and you can't explain it.
<br />13. Your family hardly recognizes you at reunions (at least the reunions you attend.)
<br />14. Your friends have distanced themselves from you and you're left hanging with only other "professionals."
<br />15. Your client pays for your hotel room plus your hourly rate.
<br />16. Your client always wants to know how much you charge and what they get for the money.
<br />17. Your pimp drives nice cars like Mercedes or BMWs.
<br />18. Your pimp encourages drinking and you become addicted to drugs to ease the pain of it all.
<br />19. You know the pimp is charging more than you are worth but if the client is foolish enough to pay it's not your problem.
<br />20. When you leave to go see a client, you look great,but return looking like hell (compare your appearance on Monday AM to  Friday PM).
<br />21. You are rated on your "performance" in an excruciating ordeal.
<br />22. Even though you get paid the big bucks, it's the client who walks away smiling.
<br />23. The client always thinks your "cut" of your billing rate is higher than it actually is, and in turn, expects miracles from you.
<br />24. When you deduct your "take" from your billing rate, you constantly wonder if you could get a better deal with another pimp.
<br />25. Everyday you wake up and tell yourself, "I'm not going to be doing this stuff the rest of my life."
