---
layout: post
title: 'New Geek Toys Finally'
category: uncategorized
---

Some people think of me as a gadget geek.  Surprisingly though I'm not.  Before Melanie I did not have cable TV for years.  Broadcast TV was good enough for me.  The last time I brought a computer was the first part of 1999, which was a laptop.  And the last time I brought a desktop system was in 1998.  And yes, both of these computers are still in use today.  <br /><br />The only gadgets I tend to keep up to date are gaming consoles, even though I don't game as much as I would like.  I have a PS/2, 2 Xbox consoles, Sega Dreamcast, Super Nintendo, and a Gameboy Advance.  I gave away my older consoles when I moved to New York.  I would have kept them if I had the space.<br /><br />So contrary to popular belief I'm not much of a gadget geek...until yesterday.  I finally broken down and bought a Dell PowerEdge server for use with upcoming work.  And I'm planning to buy more computers, servers, laptops, etc over the next year.  But the really cool geek gadget in my live as of yesterday, and in Melanie's life, is <a href="http://www.timewarnercable.com/corporate/products/digitalcable/dvr.html">DVR</a> (Digital Video Recorder).<br /><br />Melanie was kind enough to visit the Time Warner office yesterday and upgraded our digital cable box with the new DVR box.  It's like having <a href="http://www.tivo.com/">TiVo</a> built into the cable box, and I for one am totally hooked.  Recording shows has never been easier.  And the instance replay and rewinding of live shows is awesome.  It comes with a series manager that allows us to record entire show series airing on one or more channels.  And we can record two shows at the same time, which is pretty dang awesome.<br /><br />Time Warner DVR will definitely change the way we watch TV.  Digital cable gives us tons of channels which on any given day there is nothing to watch.  But combined with DVR there will also be an interesting show to watch, from Brady Bunch to South Park to the latest XPlay on TechTV.<br /><br /><br />
