---
layout: post
title: 'Time for a New Challenge'
category: uncategorized
---

I read an <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/4167633.stm">article</a> that talks about how e-mail is becoming an information database for people.  I have been thinking a lot about this over the last year as I have become more dependent on the information stored as e-mail.  I keep most e-mails I send and receive especially those related to <a href="http://www.whitepeaksoftware.com/">White Peak Software</a>.  I keep every e-mail sent to and received from my wife.  I keep the receipts from online purchases, and so on.  I even have archives of e-mails that date back to the mid-90s.<br /><br />It has reached a point were managing all this information is a struggle.  Programs I use no longer meet my needs for managing the information I wish to store.  And while certain add-in products for the program I use help, I still feel like there has to be a better way.<br /><br />I have traveled to the far ends of the web searching for a program that will meet my needs.  I found many programs that satisfy certain requirements but I have yet to find the one product that addresses all my needs.  Or even 80% of my needs.  What's a poor software developer to do?<br /><br />Well, this poor software developer has decided to take on a new challenge and produce a product that will satisfy the requirements I have for personal information management.  This is by no means a simple task.  This is not the type of program that I can crank out in a week or two and hope to start selling.  The reality is that it will probably take a year or more to be as feature rich as I would like.  But I believe this is something that <a href="http://www.whitepeaksoftware.com/">White Peak</a> can produce.<br /><br />Fyi, the decision to produce this product explains why I have been toying around with Delphi over the last month.  I personally believe there is no better development language for Windows development then Delphi.
