---
layout: post
title: 'Long Time No Post'
category: uncategorized
---

December has been a very busy month for me and my wife.  We've had a lot going on, which is why I have been slow to post this month.  And no, I have not spent the entire month playing on the Xbox 360, although I wish I had.<br /><br />First the exciting news...We're moving out of NYC!<br /><br />Yep, you read it here first.  We're moving out of NYC at the end of January.  Melanie and I both love this city but we also want a life style that is hard to have in the city unless you are filthy rich.  And contrary to my family's beliefs, living in Manhattan doesn't mean you are rich and we are far from rich.<br /><br />So where are we moving to?  <a href="http://www.salemweb.com/">Salem, Massachusetts</a>.  I call it our "From Rainbows to Witches" move and if you know anything about where we currently live and where we are moving to you will know this is not a Wizard of Oz reference.<br /><br />We found a super nice apartment in Salem.  It's actually a house but a portion of the first floor is used as office space for the church that is next door.  We have a small portion of the first floor, all of the second and third floors, and a small storage room.  This house is definitely larger than our small Manhattan apartment.  And for a faction of the cost too.  I'll post pictures of the house in about a month.<br /><br />A number of other things have been keeping me busy in December too.  Migrating all my Visual Studio.NET 2003 (.NET 1.1) projects to Borland Developer Studio 2006 (C# Builder) has not gone as smoothly as I had hoped.  I'll post my experience about this later, but I will say I absolutely love BDS.  Live templates are awesome and the IDE is very fast.  Aside from load time I find it more responsive than Visual Studio 2005, which is why I'm moving all my .NET 1.1 projects to BDS.<br /><br />I also spent a lot of time in December reviewing and evaluating specific features of Visual Studio 2005 and .NET 2.0.  There are some improvements I like such as <a href="http://www.thecave.com/archive/2005/11/09/my_opinion_of_typed_data_sets_is_changing.aspx">typed data sets</a> but I'm finding my customers are slow to move to or have little interest at the moment in .NET 2.0.  So while I wish BDS 2006 had support for .NET 2.0 it doesn't look like I will be doing any hardcore .NET 2.0 work anytime soon.  My focus will continue to be on Win32 and .NET 1.1.<br /><br />Happy holidays to everyone.
