---
layout: post
title: 'Keeping a Career Fresh'
category: uncategorized
---

Over the past few months I have come across various blog <a href="http://www.sellsbrothers.com/news/showTopic.aspx?ixTopic=1800">posting</a> where a developer will say something like "I can't see myself as a developer in 20 years" or "I can't see myself writing code until I retire."  I on the other hand can't imagine a time when I will not want to write code and develop software.  I've done this for 20+ years and I'm hoping for another 20+ years.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong.  I'm not saying I want to sit behind the keyboard every day for the rest of my life.  After all, I still enjoy my time riding snow covered slopes.  But I do see myself writing code well into my retirement years.  For me the trick is keeping the work exciting and fresh.<br /><br />When I start getting bored I find new ways to liven things up.  For instance, over the years I have switched languages a number of times.  I was a BASIC/PASCAL developer in the 80's then I switched to C/C++.  A few years later I switched to VB followed by Delphi followed by Java.  ASP and a return to VB followed which was later replaced with C# and the .NET Framework.  And today I am writing Win32 code using Delphi.<br /><br />Other ways to make software development fresh again is to pursue new areas of interest.  Instead of writing yet another web-based application, find a project that allows you to write a desktop application.  If you have been doing in-house development for years consider a move to an ISV.  I personally find commercial software development is a different experience and worlds apart from enterprise, in-house development.<br /><br />Other ways to keep software development fresh that have worked for me:<ul><li>Participate on a standard committee - help change the industry</li><li>Spend the next year focused on a particular technology that is new to you</li><li>Work with a new team and participate in a role that is new you - for instance become the QA manager if you have been a senior developer for the last few years</li><li>Write your own software...and sell it!</li></ul>
