---
layout: post
title: 'First Visit to Fenway'
category: personal
tags: [salem]
---

My wife and I went to Fenway the other night to see the Redsox play.  It was our first visit to Fenway.  I like the stadium despite the small size.  As a matter of fact, I said to me wife I felt like we were at a minor league game because of the stadium size.  Plus, the stadium seems to be very family friendly with a kid throwing the first pitch and a kid making the standard "Play ball!" announcement.  The vibe and stadium size reminded me of the two minor league teams in New York.  However, that opinion changed once the game got started.  The crowd definitely fills the stadium with cheers and you definitely feel like you are at a major league game once the first pitch is thrown.<br /><br />Boston fans are definitely loyal fans.  But unlike St. Louis where just about every wears red, Boston fans have no one color.  Sure the Redsox fans are wearing some type of Redsox shirt but some shirts are blue, some are white, some are red...I even saw a green Redsox shirt.  Go figure.  One of the things I like about going to a Cardinals game in Busch stadium is seeing the sea of red.<br /><br />Contrary to popular belief, I thought the ticket prices were reasonable and definitely cheaper than a Yankees game.  Granted I paid for my tickets through the normal channel and I didn't get ripped off by some scalper selling a $40 ticket for $150.  The food is also cheaper at Fenway compared to Yankee Stadium.  The only thing that was more expensive is the beer.<br /><br />Fenway charges way too much for beer.  Yes, a beer at Yankee stadium will run you something like $8 but it is twice the size of the wimpy $6 beer at Fenway.  So by the end of the game we spent as much as we would at Yankee stadium but that was only because we had to buy more beers at Fenway than we typically do at Yankee Stadium.
