---
layout: post
title: 'From Delphi to C# and Back Again'
category: programming
tags: [delphi, c#]
---

I remember when I first started working with C#.  A friend at Microsoft showed it to me at PDC in 2000.  He just happened to be the same guy who introduced me to Delphi a few years earlier, and I remember him saying "You're going to love this."  And I did.  C# made programming fun again for me after being stuck in the VB world for a couple of years.  That fun feeling I had with C# was similar to the fun feeling I had when I was programming with Delphi during the mid-90s.<br /><br />I enjoyed C# for the years that followed.  Of course all the work was web-based.  After starting <a href="http://www.whitepeaksoftware.com/">White Peak Software</a> a customer asked me to develop a prototype version of a desktop application.  The customer also asked that I use VB.NET, so I gave VB.NET a try.  However I stepped away from the project after completing the prototype.  Working in VB.NET was an awful experience for me and I now refuse to write any programs using VB.NET.  <br /><br />What was equally as awful was writing a desktop application in .NET (and I have written my fair share of them as well).  Sure, it can be done but not with the speed and easy found with Delphi and the VCL.  I bought and used Delphi 2005 for the next desktop application I wrote and I haven't looked back.  Delphi is back as my language of choice, and the Borland Developer Studio is my IDE of choice for both Delphi and C# development.<br /><br />The VCL is the magical piece that makes writing Windows desktop application so easy.  Sure I love Delphi as a language.  Pascal has always been my favorite.  I cut my programming teeth on Pascal back in the early 80's.  C# is a nice language too especially if you prefer C-style languages, and it's my second programming language of choice.  But VCL features such as TFrame and TAction make writing a Windows desktop application make easier compared to .NET.<br /><br />Today I do more Delphi programming than C# and I couldn't be happier.  My customers are happier too.
