---
layout: post
title: 'Long Time No Post'
category: personal
tags: [blogs]
---

I know.  I know.  It's been a very long time since my last blog posting.  I have never gone this long between posting since starting this blog back in March 2002.  The longest delay between postings until now was back when I made the move from NYC to Salem.  The delay was almost 2 months, but this most recent delay has been just over 4 months.  Way too long to go without a posting, especially considering all that has happened in the last 4 months.  Needless to say, though, with all that has happened over the last 4 months my schedule has been unusually busy which is why I haven't had time to post.  Staying in hotels without Internet access hasn't helped either.<br /><br />So the 2 biggest events that have happened are:<br /><br />1) My wife and I are expecting a baby boy at the end of March!!!!  I can't begin to tell you how excited I am about this.  Already it seems like I discovery something new about being a daddy-to-be on an almost daily basis.  For instance, just the other day I could see the baby moving around in my wife's belly.  I heard this was possible and I thought it would be freaky, like watching Aliens or something.  But it turned out to be really cool.  And the movements seems to be more frequent and more visible each day.  I'll be posting more about being a daddy-to-be / new dad.  Meanwhile, check out our <a href="http://www.melanieandkirby.com/babyt/">baby blog</a>.<br /><br />2) We bought a house!  Yep, after living most of my life in rental property and all of my adult life in rentals, I can finally say I'm a home owner.  I still don't think owning a home is a wise financial investment, but I can say I love the idea behind owning a home.  There's nothing quiet like it.  The freedom to do what you want such as paint, remodel, etc, to make the place your own is awesome.<br /><br />And on the business front, White Peak Software continues to grow.  Yes, I know I have fallen behind on release the next Killink CSV and SMTP Diagnostics updates and for that I apologize.  But it has been very important to me to put certain "ducks in a row" so I can focus on time on these products in 2008.<br /><br />So that's it for now.
