---
layout: post
title: 'Long Time No Post'
category: personal
tags: [blog]
---

Since <a href="http://www.thecave.com/archive/2002/03.aspx">starting this blog</a> back in March 2002, I have never gone this long without a post.  The longest time before now was when I made the move from New York City to Salem Mass, which was about a month between postings.  This time around it has been nearly 2 full months between postings.  Needless to say, I have been extremely busy in through 2 months.<br /><br />First of all, I have taken on new customer work to help pay the bills while I continue working on the product side of White Peak Software.  While this has helped financially, it is taking it toll on my available time.  The main reason is I am now traveling weekly.  Combine this with my already busy <a href="http://www.thecave.com/archive/2007/01/26/my_trips_in_2007.aspx">travel schedule</a> and I'm left with very little time.<br /><br />Another activity keeping me busy is the purchase of a new house.  Melanie and I have never owned a house before so the process is totally new for us.  We found the house we really like and plan to close in December.  I can't tell you how excited we are about owning our own house and how anxious I am to be done with the buying process.  It's almost like a full time job shopping for mortgage and dealing with all the other tasks that go into buying a house.  And add to that my travel schedule...<br /><br />But wait.  There's more.  The new house is not the only thing we are excited about.  Melanie and I will soon be parents.  Yep, that's right.  I'm finally going to be a daddy.
